Reviewer 3's comment:
---------------------
The paper has a very desirable aim of obtaining a global phase diagram for molecular crystals using
a small number of reference lattices and a “modest number” of interaction potential parameters. As
such a more general discussion (sec 3) and condensed account of potential determination (sec 2)
would have been useful to the general reader. There exists a large volume of experimental crystal
structure data along with a large number of theoretical models. It is attractive to judge these models
after assessing their merits to find a classification that gives an hierarchy of their usefulness.
The authors use a small number of parameters to describe intermolecular potentials for constructing
the GPDs thereby aiming to enhance the utility of GPDs for materials design. The authors start from
a given lattice of a plastically crystalline, rotationally disordered state and examine the evolution of
the space groups of the new phases that appear as the temperature is changed for a fixed
intermolecular potential when single molecules are reduced to spheres. Such structures are
necessarily a subgroup of on of the reference lattices. The potential itself is obtained from
interaction between molecular orbitals of different molecules which are used as microscopic
director belonging to S2 with two degrees of freedom. If one associates the orbital orientation with a
spin, then this approach is concerned only with local orientational spin balance. Neither local
orientational balances of momentum and angular momentum nor entropy nor long-range alignment
tensor balances seem to be considered, as they have been done in the theory of liquid crystals.
Consequently it does not seem that there is viability in the phase diagrams that are obtained for the
various physical conditions,

Response:
---------
We use the following abbreviations: 
GPD I: Molecular crystal global phase diagrams I: Method of construction, (with J.A. Mettes and R.B. McClurg), Acta Cryst. A 60, 621-636, 2004 
GPD II: Molecular crystal global phase diagrams II: Reference lattices (with R.B. McClurg), submitted to Acta Crystallographica A, 2009
GPD III: this work

    Hmmmm, there may be a small misunderstanding.  Judging from Reviewer 3's comments, we're not sure if the ideas behind our potential were clearly communicated.  We'd like to clarify the potential is not based on a "microscopic director" description with only 2 degrees of freedom (such as the Axial Next Nearest Neighbor Ising model) but is based on a complete set of basis functions over SO3 x S2 x SO3 and has 8 degrees of freedom.  However, since the positions of the molecules are fixed (for now) in their set of reference lattices, the S2 part of the potential has *no* degrees of freedom.  Also, the orbital orientations have no association to this part (S2), or with each other ("spin balance"?), but each molecule is free to rotate in whatever way it chooses.  Thus local orientational "balances of momentum" between molecules are unrelated to each molecule's angular momentum.  According to the partition function, in fact, angular momentum for each molecule "integrates out", leaving only a temperature-dependent factor.  Again, it appears Reviewer 3 may have misunderstood the potential to be Ising-like in nature, when in reality it is quite different.  Or we may be misunderstanding his/her comments.  Regardless, to better clarify the nature of the potential, we have added two appendices giving an in-depth derivation.
    However, we thank Reviewer 3 for pointing out the general phenomenon in the literature of omission of entropic effects.  Many studies on crystalline packing ignore these, even though they are non-negligible in molecular crystals, which frequently have melting points near room temperature.  It is for this reason that in the first Global Phase Diagrams paper (GPD I) we introduced the full model which begins from elementary principles of statistical mechanics with free energetic/entropic effects fully included.  It particularly focuses on the first set of phases forming after the initial symmetry is broken at higher temperatures.  In the second paper (GPD II) we discuss the set of reference lattices appropriate to tetrahedral molecules, and in this work (GPD III), we discuss the low-temperature phases and as such, entropic effects are almost nonexistent and so are not necessary.  
    We also note that, unlike liquid crystals, long-range alignment tensors are not necessary to describe most molecular crystals, which generally are fairly rigid on a global topology, despite a certain amount of local thermal disorder.  Thus long range order is always present and material-wide strains do not influence the equilibrium thermodynamics or the applications of molecular crystals like they do liquid crystals. 

Reviewer 3's comment:
---------------------
The effort of the authors in sec 2.2 for determining potential parameters to reproduce experimental
structures may benefit from considerations of other models, notably the ANNNI (axial Next-
Nearest-Neighbour Ising) which have rich phase diagrams including commensurate and
incommensurate phases. By choosing a molecular orientation as the Ising spin the authors may
compare their predictions with that from the ANNNI model. From the viewpoint of an emphasis as
a review article it could perhaps be mandatory to make this comparison. The additional time spent
could be worth the effort. One recognizes that the final space-group-determining step involves weak
interactions that are many time within the error limits of the usual calculations. The mock version of
the ANNNI model has the advantage that it is completely solvable when reduced to a one-
dimensional exercise. The conclusions of the present authors could be compared with those from
the ANNNI models, for example.

Response:
---------
	This is a commendable idea and we thank Reviewer 3 for bringing it up.  We were somewhat acquainted with the vast amount of Ising-type publications, but considered an attempt to review the field adequately would inordinately shift the focus of this work and would better be spent on the extremely important subject of the paper itself: finding a sufficient number of interaction parameters to represent real materials (especially since this work is already lengthy!).  However, we have attempted to review this field briefly in the revised version of this paper, mostly in the context of the ANNNI-type models Reviewer 3 has mentioned.  Additionally, although the scope of *this* work is narrow and specialized, the *next* paper presenting a general computation with the full model from the high temperature reference state would indeed benefit from a more direct comparison with the ANNNI.  The only caveats may be that molecular crystal GPD interactions are only nearest neighbor for now (justified by typical van der Waals molecule-molecule interactions--see GPD I).  Another caveat is the extra degree of freedom that comes from dealing with a complete three dimensional molecule rather than a one-dimensional spin, which makes "choosing a molecular orientation as the Ising spin" ambiguous since one would arbitrarily give the ANNNI models an extra degree of freedom somehow.  However, we can probably attempt a qualitative comparison.  One last issue with a direct comparison is that the two potentials are very different parametrically, leading to additional ambiguities in how to compare the typical J_1 and J_2 directional couplings from ANNNI with our 15 axes parameterizing a complete quantum mechanical basis set.  This complete-set potential has the side effect of an extremely complex and computationally demanding solution technique in the general case discussed in GPD I.  Thus Reviewer 3's good intentions at pointing toward the simplicity of solving ANNNIs as an impetus to make such a comparison may not be as profitable as one would hope for given the lack of a comparable methodology, which is of course lamentable! :)
	

Reviewer 3's comment:
---------------------
Another point that requires mention/deliberation in the context of the focus of the general
readership of the journal is the relation between the global phase diagram of essentially 3D liquids
and that of the bulk molecular crystals especially in the context and as reflected in the local critical behavior of surfaceswith or without defectsseparating the liquid and solid phase. Some
mention of these aspects would be useful.

In my opinion, the advantages of methodology of the authors using interaction potentials obtained
from orbital orientations, has to be examined in the context of those already available in the
literature.

Response:
---------
	This is an interesting point, and in initial drafts we attempted a connection with liquid structure on phase boundaries because it has such a large effect on polymorphism, which is a subject GPDs may help illuminate.  My colleague and coauthor elected to omit such considerations, however, judging they were too removed from the task of identifying the basic thermodynamics.  
	However, on the advice of Reviewer 3, we have added them again as part of the discussion in the introduction (which is the best that can be done considering the narrow scope of this paper), and will form a larger section in our next paper which is devoted to the general application of GPDs.  Regarding this point, there seem to be a few questions one might consider.  First, what are the intersection lines on molecular crystal GPDs between solid GPDs and liquid GPDs?   Another question might be: how do surface free energies and kinetic effects (undercooling, seeding) affect crystal growth and therefore these solid-liquid phase boundaries?  And finally: how do the presence of defects, both in the bulk and on these surfaces, affect free energies and therefore phase boundaries?  The preliminary answers to these questions might be the following:
	1) One might expect each set of potential coefficients would have some temperature at which a liquid phase would be thermodynamically more stable than the solid phase listed on our GPDIt's all essentially disordered liquid above a certain temperature, though what temperature that would be is what makes this question interesting (at higher temperatures one would expect to see other critical points/lines). 
	2) Surface free energies, crystal habit, growth rates, kinetic barriers, and external conditions would certainly have an effect on that initial transition line between liquid and solid.  The best way to handle this would probably be to prescribe a set of crystallization conditions before creating the intersection between liquid and solid GPDs, then include all such effects in the calculation of that set of surfaces for all nu.
	3) Defects are an interesting subject in general and a complete description
	
	Basically, our argument of how is the following:
	
	
	The basic premise of how this will influence our GPDs is given in the explanation of the method below.
1) Compute a set of general phase diagrams.  This gives the underlying thermodynamics of the system.  How surface free energies and their concomitant crystal habit affect the shapes/borders of the phases will generally be a perturbation on the basic thermodynamics.  
2) Next, from the potential in that particular point in nu-space, calculate surface free energies and their concomitant crystal habit.  Also
3) Then kinetic effects such as undercooling rates, etc. affect

	
	Once again, we have included a more thorough discussion of other types of GPDs extent in the literature (in addition to van Konyenburg) such as the ANNNI models
	


