GPD III: REFEREE 1

Title: Molecular Crystal Global Phase Diagrams III: Sufficient parameter
space determination
Author(s): J.B. Keith,a+ and R.B. McClurg

This manuscript comprises part III of a multi-article series by the
authors. The first paper was published in Acta Cryst. A60, pp 621-636 (2004),
and the second is currently under review.

If we place center of mass of a single molecule at the origin, a pair of
molecules have a total of nine positional and orientational degrees of
freedom.  Ignoring their separation distance, eight of these dofs are
orientational.  In summarizing the relevant portion of the 2004 Acta Cryst
A paper, they demonstrated the utility of expressing the intermolecular
potential (IP) as a linear combination of triple products of two Wigner
functions (one for each molecule) and one spherical harmonic.  The Wigner
functions form an orthogonal basis for expanding the single-molecule
potential and the spherical harmonics form an orthogonal basis for
expanding the intermolecular-orientational components of the IP.  The
expansion coefficients of the total expansion are considered to be
functions of the intermolecular distance.  The authors further argue that
when working with a molecule of a specific point symmetry, it greatly
simplifies the expansion if we work with symmetry-adapted linear
combinations of Wigner functions.

In this context, the authors then ask the question, how many expansion
coefficients does one need to achieve a sufficiently rich parameter space
for stabilizing all of the observed molecular structures studied in their
previous manuscript (part II of the series)?  Because the IP expansion is
infinite over the manifold (i.e. L) indices of the Wigner functions that
span the SO(3) space, this question seems impossible to answer at first.
But the authors point out that distortions of the molecular structures
relative to the idealized references lattices can be decomposed into
symmetry-adapted order parameters that are classified according to the
point-group irreps involved in breaking the molecular site symmetry.  For
each structure of interest, they identified the relevant molecular
point-group irreps involved in the distortion.  They also point out that
for a given manifold of SO(3) and a given point group G, there will be
specific irreps of G capable of producing a distortion with the same
symmetry as the basis functions of the the selected manifold.  Inspecting
each manifold one at a time, one eventually reaches a minimum manifold
that contains one of the point-group irreps involved in the distorted
molecular structure.  For each distortion of interest, the authors authors
identified the minimal manifold that contains at least one route to
stabilizing the observed distortion.  This is a very clever simplifying
assumption, though we are not able to verify that this minimal manifold
will be sufficient in practice to realize real distortions in a wide-range
of molecular crystals.  Using these arguments, the authors find that their
test structures never require more than L «= 4, which requires only 15
symmetry-unique expansion coefficients as opposed to thousands.  This is
their main result.  Thankfully, they stopped at 39 pages and did not
actually generate a 15-parameter global phase diagram!

We took point-group-irrep decompositions of SO(3) in Table 1 at face value
and checked the minimal manifold results in Table 2, which was computed
correctly.  We assume that the results in Tables 5-7 were also computed
correctly, but did not check.

The basic approach taken by the authors appears to be technically sound
and innovative.  The selection of cited literature is adequate and the
choice of journal is probably OK.  Being unfamiliar with the molecular
packing literature, we are not in a position to assess the relative
importance of this work.  While the manuscript feels very long, we were
unable to identify a section or sections that could be conveniently
ommitted or moved to the supplementary material; another reviewer might be
able to accomplish this.  Based on the novelty of the application and the
correctness of the analysis, the work appears to be suitable for
publication in Acta Cryst A in its current form.