Referee's comments:

Comments to manuscript Ms.No. pz5072; "Molecular Crystal Global Phase
Diagram III ..." by AJ. B. Keith and R. B. McClurg

The authors address the issue of constructing generic phase diagrams for
certain classes of chemical systems, where certain parameter sets are
derived that allow the characterization of the several possible phases in the
system. They find that a relatively small number is sufficient to do so for
the purpose of their phase diagram construction.
The work appears to have been done correctly, although the presentation is
not necessarily always very clear for the un-initiated. Since such generic
phase diagrams can be quite useful when trying to interpolate between
different "boundary" systems, I think that the work should be of sufficient
general interest to warrant publication once the issues and questions
mentioned below have been addressed.
I also noticed that part II of this sequence of manuscripts is still in the
process of evaluation. The authors and the editor might want to consider to
expand the part-II-manuscript by including some of the work presented in
this part-III-manuscript. They could then move the main body of the part-
III-manuscript reviewed here to a large technical supplementary material,
while including more details for those readers who want to implement the
authors' procedure themselves.



1. Quite generally, the authors should explain what they mean by "global
phase diagrams", even though this is the third paper in a sequence. Here
they should make the connection to the physics community where generic
phase diagrams have a long-standing tradition. Just consider the many
studies of Ising-models characterized by a small set of interaction
parameters, where generic phase diagrams with critical points etc. are
derived, and where both the general topology of the phase diagram and the
quantitative values of the various critical points are correlated with the
region of parameter space chosen.

This is a very good point.  We explained this in some detail in GPD I and thoroughly explained it in GPD II, but there is not much of explanation here.  We have remedied

2. What about metastable compounds? Can the authors deduce anything in
this regard?
3. Equation 1: Where is "l" in the formula, and what is its meaning?
4. Equation 2: If someone wants to follow the authors prescription in
practice, more information is necessary. Please, give a more complete
version of this equation in the appendix including ranges for mi, ni in the
summation.
5. Page 10, top: Is the assumption justified that including only pairwise
interactions among nearest neighbors is sufficient?
Page 11: Equation 5: What is A, what is V? (A = free energy at T = 0?, V =
potential energy / total energy?)
Page 13: First paragraph: There are very many paths between two space
groups (probably infinitely many for a macroscopic system, where one can
play with reducing/adding translational symmetry). Why did the authors
pick the ones they present?
Page 15, top: The restrictions in the allowed ISs appear rather strong - even
if Z' «= 1 for many structures, one should allow for a richer sample space of
structures.
Page 16, beginning section 2.2.4: I really have a hard time following what
the authors are trying to do here. Please clarify and elaborate. Why do they
minimize atomic distances with respect to fractional coordinates (there
appears to be a comparison between quantities measured in Angstroms and
those which are dimensionless!)?
Page 17, equation 8: What are the units of the various potential
parameters?
Page 17, right after equation 8: The authors state that MEZDIE01
crystallizes in space group 2. Is that the outcome of their calculations, or is
this used as input to their calculations?
Page 17, section 2.2.5: Where do the authors get the target structure and its
energy from? What is general, what is specific about the procedure
described in this section? What is really the predictive power of this
method? Please, make a clear list of the information that is used to derive
the parameters, and of the information one can deduce by a strict
application of the authors' rules afterwards.
Page 18: A citation for genetic algorithms is Holland's work in the mid-
seventies.
Page 20, second paragraph: Is there a connection to "real" energies of solids
or liquids? If so, how are these energies computed?
Page 21: The authors refer to free energy calculations. I do not see any "free
energies" in their description: everthing seems to be just energy or some
proxy for the energy or a cost function.
Page 27: I realize that the authors imagine readers reading all their papers
in sequence, but that is not necessarily so. Thus, they should include at
least one generic phase diagram, at least in projection if the number of
parameters needed to describe it is too large. The number of parameters
might appear modest to the authors, but it still appears to be rather large.
How close are we to reality concerning the actual energies?

Responses: