
                           CASSANDRA
              VTK/Java based 3D Scientific Data Viewer
                  (c) Artenum, Paris, France, 2005
                  http://www.artenum.com/cassandra
                 
                      Version 2.2 (July 2006)

Initial authors: 
    - Sebastien Jourdain (Artenum), contact: sebastien.Jourdain@artenum.com
    - Julien Forest (Artenum), contact: j.forest@artenum.com
    - Artenum SARL, Paris, France. 

1) Introduction / Purpose

   Cassandra is a modular and advanced 3D scientific data viewer.
   Cassandra is written in Java and based on the Visualisation Tool Kit, 
   VTK. 

   Like in OpenDX, Cassandra includes a graphical visualisation pipeline 
   editor based on the DedalEgraph library.

   Data processing are performed through an extensive set of dynamical and
   independent plug-ins. An advanced Python/Jython console, JyConsole, 
   complete the system and allows the direct manipulation of all objects 
   used in the system, independently of their initial language (C++/Java/
   Python). JyConsole includes an object oriented completion. 

   Thanks to this modular approach, Cassandra is highly adaptable and
   extensible to specific and tailored data processing and should simplify 
   the learning curve of the VTK library by non-specialists. 

2) Build

   To build Cassabdra to your computer you will have to download the 
   thirdpart libraries and update a configuration file where you will have 
   to specify the path of those library.

   See the "THIRDPART.txt" for more details. (Could be in the provided thirdpart 
   directory)

   The configuration file to update is "config.properties" that you must 
   create from the "config.sample" file which is the base of the properties
   needed for the compilation and the packaging process.

   Then use ANT in order to generate the engine components.

   => Ant task available:
       - clean   : remove all builded documents. (class, jar, javadoc)
       - jar     : generate the jar file for the Cassandra framework
                   and place it in the binary-package directory
       - javadoc : generate the javadoc of the source code and place in 
                   the Doc/API directory
       - exec    : generate the script for the code execution and place 
                   them in the binary-package directory
       - make    : execute jar and exec and remove the build directory

3) Contact

    E-mail: jourdain@artenum.com

    Mail: Artenum SARL
          101-103, Bd Mac Donald
          75019 PARIS, FRANCE

    Phone: +33(0)1 44 89 45 15
    Fax:   +33(0)1 44 89 45 17



